---
title: "A hierarchical control framework for vehicle repositioning in ride-hailing systems"
author: "C.V. Beojone, P. Zhu, I.I. Sirmatel, N. Geroliminis"
where: "Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies"
tags: 
date: '2024-06-20'
layout: single
category: publications
author_profile: true
excerpt:
comments: true
header:
  teaser: "HC_for_RV_of_RHSs.png"
sidebar:
  nav: "publications"
---

Beojone, C. V., Zhu, P., Sirmatel, I. I., & Geroliminis, N. (2024). A hierarchical control framework for vehicle repositioning in ride-hailing systems. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 104717. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2023.104338 <a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0968090X24002389" style="color: #2d5a8c; text-decoration:underline">(full text pdf)</a>

Abstract: This paper introduces a multi-layer control strategy for efficiently repositioning empty ride-hailing vehicles, aiming to bridge the gap between proactive repositioning strategies and micro-management. The proposed framework consists of three layers: an upper-layer employing an aggregated model based on the Macroscopic Fundamental Diagram (MFD) and model predictive control (MPC) to determine optimal vehicle repositioning flows between each pair of regions, a middle-layer converting macroscopic decisions into dispatching commands for individual vehicles, and a lower-layer utilizing a coverage control algorithm for demand-aligned positioning guidance within regions. The upper-layer contributes to the proposed framework by providing a global (macroscopic) view and predictive capabilities including traffic and congestion features. The middle-layer contributes by ensuring and optimal assignment of repositioning vehicles, considering the decision from the upper- and lower- layers. Finally, the lower-layer contributes with operational details at the intersection or node level providing the precision required for microscopic vehicle guidance. Experimental validation using an agent-based simulator on a real network in Shenzhen confirms the effectiveness and efficiency of the framework in improving empty vehicle repositioning strategies for ride-hailing services in terms of average passenger waiting time and abandonment rates.
